# Shopping Report Builder

This tool provides a user-friendly approach to allow you to pull reports from
[the Reporting API in Google Merchant Center](
    https://developers.google.com/shopping-content/guides/reports/overview).

## The Problem
It is not possible to export some fields from the UI, but they're available via
the reporting API. This creates a barrier for entry for less technical users who
need this information for tasks like optimisation.

## Solution
This project is an application embedded within Google Sheets, providing a
user-friendly way to access Merchant Center data. It allows users to extract
specific information by inputting custom queries based on the Content API. The
extracted data is then populated into the Google Sheet for further analysis and
reporting.

## Get Started
TODO: Write me.

Create a copy of this Google Sheet.

## Manual Deployment
TODO: write me.

## Local Development
TODO: write me.

## Disclaimer
__This is not an officially supported Google product.__

Copyright 2024 Google LLC. This solution, including any related sample code or
data, is made available on an "as is", "as available", and "with all faults"
basis, solely for illustrative purposes, and without warranty or representation
of any kind. This solution is experimental, unsupported and provided solely for
your convenience. Your use of it is subject to your agreements with Google, as
applicable, and may constitute a beta feature as defined under those agreements.
To the extent that you make any data available to Google in connection with your
use of the solution, you represent and warrant that you have all necessary and
appropriate rights, consents and permissions to permit Google to use and process
that data. By using any portion of this solution, you acknowledge, assume and
accept all risks, known and unknown, associated with its usage, including with
respect to your deployment of any portion of this solution in your systems, or
usage in connection with your business, if at all.
